# I attempted to join Amazon

Believing myself to be well out of my depth, I decided to take the leap and apply for Amazons Graduate Software Developer Engineer position. Luckily I got through the first step and was sent a link to their programming assessment. All the stories you hear about applying for FANG companies and their testing had me pretty nervous and I was expecting to be presented with "program a function that solves time travel", but to my surprise, I was actually able to understand what they were asking for and was confident that I could at least make a good attempt at it. Due to confidentiallity I can't expand much on the questions, but I was required to write functions for 2 tasks, the first was a struggle as I managed to complete the function, but I couldn't pass a few of the test cases due to the time complexity of my solution being too slow (O(n^2)) (darn nested loops).

I spent far too much time on trying to improve this, that when I peaked at the timer I started to sweat and proceeded to the next question. I thought I was screwed with the limited time I had remaining, but after calming down and breaking the question down into simple to understand steps, it turns out it was more of a math question than a programming one and I was able to successfully pass all test cases.

## What did I learn?

I learnt that I need to believe in myself and my own ability more. Yes I struggled with certain aspects, as unfortunately I wasn't able to reduce the time complexity of one of my answers to lower than O(n^2), however, at least for my level, I was honestly surprised by my own ability that I could actually pass the majority of the test cases.

Alexa, add improving time complexity to my study list.