# Hello World!

Welcome to my blog! My name is James, a Computer Science graduate from Northumbria University.

My main goal with this website is for it to act as a portfolio to show what I am currently working on, as well as being an outlet to help me work through my thoughts,
and help make my job hunting a little bit more engaging.

Currently, I am trying to improve my writing, as it is not the best, often becoming wordy, which is probably a side effect of me trying to hit word counts during my assessment writing (whoops), but through writing more of these articles I aim to improve my writing ability and help make my messages concise and easy-to-understand.

So whilst working on improving my communication skills, I would like to share my journey with you. On the **About** page (once I get around to finishing it!), you will find more in-depth information about who I am, what my background is, and what my career goals are.

For now, I will be writing about the technical details of this web page and I will be structuring future **project articles** in the following way:
- Project aims
- Technology used/considered as well a justification for those choices
- The approach I will be taking/took

And then for any finished projects or updates:
- What could be improved?
- What did I learn?
- How happy I am with the outcome?

This structure will most likely change as I write more and experiment with different approaches, but for now I'm confident that this is a good starting point.

Anyway, if you have made it this far, thank you for reading!