# Working On Mindset

Having graduated university, I foolishly thought that I had finished the most difficult part of starting a career and that I would be offered a job by the end of the year. That was back in June, and I am still in the exhausting and demoralising world of job hunting. After working on applications for nearly 6 months now, it had taken its toll on me both mentally and physically, to a point where it became concerning. The quality of the applications that I was putting in had dropped, I was unproductive, I was slipping into depression, and I was struggling to make myself appealing to potential employers. After meeting with a work coach that had been suggested to me, things began to click.

Originally, I was quite cynical when it came to things like mindset, believing that I already had a good understanding of myself and knew what I needed to do to be successful, but after a couple of very eye-opening sessions, everything became much clearer, and I learnt things about myself that I hadn't ever considered.

## Mindset coaching session 1
In my first session, I mentioned how I was in this downward spiral that was not only affecting my job hunting, but also my personal life. Through discussing these issues with my coach, I learnt that there was this feeling of guilt that I had when I wasn't doing applications, and this guilt was slipping into other aspects of my life. When I was doing things that I enjoyed, the guilt of not doing applications was negatively affecting the enjoyment I was getting out of my hobbies, causing me to lose focus and leading to procrastination.

To combat this, my coach suggested that I took a step back from the applications and the self-imposed stress for a few days in order to refresh myself and re-evaluate who I am. To achieve this, they suggested that I made a schedule for my daily activities in order to remove myself from the guilt I felt when I wasn't doing applications. Sticking to this schedule would mean I would limit applications to the allotted "work time", and this would prevent me from spending all day on them and filling them in at 11 o'clock at night.

During this re-evaluation period, I was told to really think about what my core strengths and values were in order to build my "personal brand", to help me see what I should really be focusing on in my applications to help sell myself. If I don't know what my strengths are, how can I answer an interview question about them? During this time, I was given a few quizzes to complete. One was a strengths profile to learn about what my strengths and weakness could be, and how I should be utilising them. Another was a ["saboteur"](https://www.positiveintelligence.com/saboteurs/) assessment to see what behaviours I had that were preventing me from achieving my goals.

## Conclusion
After this first session, I feel re-energised about my potential and I am eager to try out a new, structured approach to my day while gaining deeper insights about myself. In my next post, I’ll share how this went, focusing on mindset, my realised strengths, and key takeaways from session 2. For now, I’ll be stepping back from applications for a couple of days to reflect and put this new daily schedule into practice.

